# CoverCHILD data integration FHIR ETL 
last updated: 2023-10-10
---

## Purpose
This repository contains code for the CoverCHILD data integration project. Patient data is queried from a FHIR server on-site and transformed into flat tables corresponding to FHIR resources for further anonymisation and processing (e.g., the monitoring dashboard use case).

## Dependencies
This script uses R (≥ 4.1.0), the following R packages and their respective dependencies:

- config (≥ 0.3.2)
- fhircrackr (≥ 2.1.1)
- tictoc (≥ 1.2)
- tidyverse (≥ 2.0.0)

Missing R packages are installed automatically from the R package repository (CRAN). If that is not wanted or possible, install packages manually prior to running the script. Please note that the script does try to install missing packages, but does not yet check whether versions of already installed packages are matching.

## Folder structure
```
├── code/
│   ├── fhir_etl.R                   # main R script
│   └── functions.R                  # R helper functions
├── config/
│   ├── EXAMPLE_fhir_cfg.yml         # general configuration TEMPLATE
│   ├── EXAMPLE_fhir_search_cfg.yml  # FHIR search configuration TEMPLATE
│   ├── fhir_cfg.yml                 # general configuration, generated by running 
│   │                                # 'create_fresh_config.sh' or by copying and renaming 
│   │                                # 'EXAMPLE_fhir_cfg.yml' manually
│   └── fhir_search_cfg.yml          # FHIR search configuration, generated by running 
│                                    # 'create_fresh_config.sh' or by copying & renaming 
│                                    # 'EXAMPLE_fhir_search_cfg.yml' manually
├── logs/                            # log files (timings, http errors)
├── output/                          # final output of the script
├── tmp/                             # temporary files
├── create_fresh_config.sh           # creates/resets configuration files by copying from TEMPLATES
└── run_fhir_etl.sh                  # runs the script (fhir_etl.R) while logging output
```

## Steps for running the script
### 1) Configuration

- Run 'create_fresh_config.sh' to create the two necessary configuration files from the templates in the `config/` directory, or copy & rename them manually to 'fhir_cfg.yml' and 'fhir_search_cfg.yml' as shown in the folder structure
- configure 'config/fhir_cfg.yml': server settings and general behaviour of the script.
- configure 'fhir_search_cfg.yml': FHIR search parameters and resource element selection. This file only needs to be modified in special cases e.g., if your FHIR server supports a custom 'ServiceType' SearchParameter for Encounter resources.

For further information and instructions, see the documentation within the configuration files.

### 2) Executing the script

- in an interactive R session by opening the 'CoverCHILD_FHIR_ETL.Rproj' R project and running the 'code/fhir_etl.R' script

or by

- running 'run_fhir_etl.sh'. Here, all output will be logged to folder specified for log files in 'fhir_cfg.yml' 

## Check for success / Troubleshooting
If the script ran through successfully

- the last entry of the corresponding 'FHIR_timings_*.csv' in the log directory is 'Run FHIR ETL.'
- the output directory contains one .csv table per resource i.e., Patient, Encounter, Condition, Procedure (if 'save_output' was set to true in fhir_cfg.yml)
- no http error file was generated in the log directory

## Contact
We're very interested in your experience running the script and would be happy to receive any feedback regarding comments, troubleshooting, questions, improvements, etc.
Especially useful to us is feedback on performance i.e.,

- the generated 'FHIR_timings_*.csv' log files, which do not contain sensitive data
- optimal/feasible batch size configuration on the used hardware

Please feel free to message us on github, open issues, or write a mail to simeon.platte@kgu.de.

---
Published under [CC-BY-4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

